---
title: "Space Game — Session 7"
date: 2017-03-13 10:00
grade: primary
published: true
---

# Space Game - Session 7

## Make the game harder!

Right now, the game stays the same during the whole run and while you have score, **it doesn't do anything!**

In this session, we will make the game get more challenging the longer you play!

- We will make sure **you don't run out of enemies!**
- If you reach a certain score, **tougher enemies appear**.
- If you reach an even higher score, **you switch to the next level**.


## Make Enemies Respawn

Until now, when a bullet hits an enemy, the enemy is being destroyed. 
--> **This is handled in the actor behaviour `bullet behaviour` attached to the bullet**

Now instead, we want the **enemy to reappear at the top of the game**.

- You probably remember that we have done that before. How again?
  - Simply changing the enemy's coordinates.
- **PROBLEM**: We can't do that in a behaviour attached to the bullet!
- What do we do instead?


- Open the `Bullet Behaviour` and remove the block `Kill [Member of Group]` from the `Collision Event`
  - Don't change the rest of the behaviour!
- Open the `Asteroid Movement` behaviour
- Add a `Collision event`
  - Select `When an Actor collides with a **Member of Group**`
- Add two `Set x of self to ___` blocks and add one to `y of self`.
  - x should be a *random number between 0 and screen width* just as before
  - y we will also make a random number, *between -500 and 0*

**TEST YOUR GAME AND CHECK THAT THE ENEMIES DON'T STOP COMING!**


## Spawn Tougher Enemies

- Make a new **Scene Behaviour**
  - Name: "Spawn Enemies"
- Add a `When updating event`
- Add an `if` block
  - put a `__ > __` block as the condition
    - add `score` (from `Attributes > Game Attributes`) in the left field
    - add "10" in the left field
- search for "create" in the Palette's search field
- add the `create [Actor Type] at...` block inside the if statement
  - select your (tougher) enemy type
  - put `random number between 0 and `screenwidth`` as x-coordinate
  - put "-100" as y-coordinate
- Add the behaviour to your level

**TEST IT!**


## Switch Levels

- Add another `Scene Behaviour`
  - name: "Switch Level"
- Repeat the first couple steps from the previous behaviour, but enter "20" as the right field in the `__ > __` block
- search for "switch" in the search field

Since we want to be able to use this behaviour for several different levels, we need to add an **attribute for the respective NEXT LEVEL**

- in the right lower corner of the screen, switch from the **Palette** to **Attributes**
- Add a new attribute
  - call it "Next Level"
  - set its type to "scene"
- Now click on the `[Scene]` field in the `switch` block
  - Choose `Scene Attributes`
    - Choose the attribute "Next Level"
- Add the behaviour to your original level
  - set the "Next Level" attribute to the second level
    - (if you don't have a second level yet, now is a good time to create one!)
    

**TEST YOUR GAME!**
