---
title: "Space Game — Session 8"
date: 2017-03-06 10:00
grade: primary
published: true
---

# Space Game - Session 7

## Enemies that shoot at you

Alright let's do this.

## STEP 1: A new actor: `Evil Ship`

Or whatever else you want to call it.

By now, you should know what to do. If not, check one of the previous blog posts.

Some things to bear in mind:

- What should the actor group be?
- You can already attach the "zigzag" behavior to the evil ship.

## STEP 2: Another new actor: `Space mine`

Again, whatever you want to call it.

The actor group should be the same as the evil ship. Not a projectile.

## STEP 3: New __ACTOR BEHAVIOR__: `Boss ship`.

- Add a "Time > Every N seconds" event (You should know by now how to do this)
- Set the seconds value to 2
- Inside that "do every 2 seconds" block, create a bullet at the coordinates of the boss ship. You've done this before. [Step 2, if you're stuck](https://cgp-2017.github.io/blog/2017/02/09/space-game-4.html)

That should be it!

[Here's how it should look](http://i.imgur.com/C1YLEca.png)

IN THAT SAME BEHAVIOR, add a "WHEN CREATED" event and add the usual "make (actor) always active" and set actor to self.

Try out your game! It should be create the bullets, but they won't move. Let's make them move.

## STEP 4: New __ACTOR BEHAVIOR__: `Space mine movement`

2 events in this one (You should be able to handle this without a problem):

1. A "When created" event that sets the speed to go down at `50`
2. A collision event to kill the player (You can copy this from your asteroid movement behavior)


[They](http://i.imgur.com/hHSPqXv.png) should look like [this](http://i.imgur.com/bAhzDjW.png)
